# Natural-Language-Processing
Failure of diagnose can cause a lot of problems. In a perfect world, when you are sick, hurt, or suffering from health complications, a doctor or other medical professional will be completely accurate in diagnosing sickness or suffer from health complications and lead to the right treatment plan. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. If any mistakes involve misdiagnosing a health condition, patients can suffer serious consequences such as a prolonged condition, further complications, ineffective treatment, or even death. The main goal for this project is to find the similarity of symptoms for different diseases and categorize them to help doctors and patients to understand the possibility of medical misdiagnosis.

 # Dataset

This website (https://www.mayoclinic.org/symptom-checker/select-symptom/itt-20009075) provides a resource for checking the factors causing some common disease in the human body; for instance, ‘injury’ as well as ‘overuse’ are resulting in pain or discomfort in the foot. Hence, the information provided in the site will be used as a source for collecting the data through web scraping methods. In this work, similar diseases are considered as a result of the text similarity between the documents containing their both related factors. The related factors documented in the second part specify each disease. Related factors include sections like the location of pain, other symptoms accompanying it, things that worsen the pain, etc. This variety helps us in creating more documents and a larger corpus as a result, from which we will generate the word vectors used for word embeddings. To be more specific, for a specific disease selected from the first section, we collect diverse set of factors that contribute to that pain as a document. Then these documents are combined and used as a corpus for that specific disease. The same approach will be used for another disease. The proposed semantic similarity will be applied to the group of these documents and corpuses of both diseases, resulting in the similarity between them. For instance, the combination of ‘activity or overuse,’ ‘long period of rest’, and ‘joint deformity” are three factors of foot pain in adults and ‘movement’, ‘prolonged sitting or standing’, ‘joint weakness’ can be found in knee pain. Therefore, it can be concluded that the similarity score between ‘foot pain’ and ‘knee pain’ be very high.
